# pizza-sale
SQL and Power BI Project
# Objective:
 1. To analyze customer traffic trends and identify peak hours in order to optimize staffing and improve operational efficiency.
 1. To identify the average number of pizzas in an order ,as well as the top-selling pizzas,in order to inform inventory management and marketing strategies.
 1. To determine the total revenue generated by puizza sales throughout the year and indentify any seasonal trends in order to unfrom forecasting and budgeting decisions.
 1. TO assess the popularity of various pizzas on the menu and identify any underperforming items or opportunities for promotion in order to optimize the menu and increase sales.

## About the Dataset:
This Data is taken by from kaggle in CSV fromat ,which contain detailed information about pizza restraunt sale.This csv file contain order_details_id	,order_id,	pizza_id	,quantity	,order_date,	order_time	,unit_price	,total_price	,pizza_size	,pizza_category	,pizza_ingredients	,pizza_name.

## Steps Performed:
-  Import data from all available Excel files into MYSQL.
+   Write queries on SQL to calculate the following metrics:
   1.  Total Revenue
   1.  Average  order Value
   1.  Total pizza sold
   1. Total orders
   1. Daily Trend for Total order
   1. Hourly Trend for Total orders
   1. Percentage of Sales by pizza Category
   1. Percentage of Sales by Pizza size
   1. Total Pizzas sold by Pizza Category
   1. Top 5 Best Seller by Total pizza sold
   1. Bottom 5 worst seller by Total pizzas sold
*  Connected and transformed raw data from excel file  into Power BI and designed interactive reports and dashboards to complete the task.
/  Created an executive KPI dashboard containing dynamic filtering options high- level trending metrics,sales performance ,order distribution ,and daily trend for total order ,hourly trend for total order.
 


 
